I am happy to join with you today in what will go down 
in history as the greatest demonstration for freedom in 
the histmy of olw nation. 
Five smre yeag ago a great American in whw spImlic shadow we stand today signed the Emancipation 
Proshation. This momen~tous deoree is a great W n 
light of hope to millions of Negro slaves who had been 
seared in the flames of withering injustice. It cmm ais a 
joyous d:tybreak to end the long night of their captivity. 
But 100 years later the Negro still is nok free. One hundred yearn later the life of t,he Xegro is still badly 
crippled by the manacles of segregation and the chains of 
diwrimination. One hundred gears later the Negro lives 
on a lonely island of povedp in the mjidst d a vast meam 
of matr.ria1 prosperity. Ow hundred years later the 
Negao is still lanlgnisl~cd ill the cornem of American 
=ie$ and finds hinleclf in exile in his m lad. So 
wu'vc come ho1.c. today to (1mma.tize a shamdul ccmditicm. 
In a sense w~tl'wGome to our nation's capital to cash 
a c+heck. When the aJrrahiteet.s o~f our Republic wrote the 
mzpifiemt WOI-(1s of the Constitution and the hlaration 
d Lmdepcintlc.nce, thcp were signing a promissory note to 
which ewry hlerioan was to fall heir. This note was a 
promise that. dl IWII-yes, black nwn as well as white 
me-n-would he g~al.a~ltwdthe unalienable rights of life, 
liberty and the pursuit of happiness. It is obvious today 
tha$ America has defaulted on this promissory note insofkr as hnr citizens of cololr arc c.oncerned. Ins'tead of ,-
honoring this sacred obligation, ~me&a has given the 
Nepo people a bad deck, a check whioh has come back 
marked "inisrdfioient funds. " 
But we refuse to believe that tihe bank of justice is 
tmikrupt. We ~.ef,fuseto belierc? that there are insufficient 
Suncis in the gma,t vaults of opportunity of this nation. 
So we've come to cash this check, ti check that will give 
11s upon demand the ridlcs of f~eedom and the security of 
justice. 
We have dw conic to this hallowed spot to remind 
America of the fierce urgcacp of now. This is no time to 
cl~g,agcin the 11ixui~ of cooling off or to ta.ke the t-ranquilizing di-ng of gradualism. Now is the time to make 
leal the prmlisos of democracy. Now is the time to rise 
from the dark and rlcsolatt. valley of segregation to the 
millit path of racial j~wticc~.Now is the time to lift our 
ion from the qaicksands of racial injustice to the solid 
rock of bbr.fitfherhowl. 
Now is the time t.o nlalrc justice a 1-mlity for all a€ 
God's child~en. It wo~.ltlbe fatd for the nation to overlook the urgency of the momen,t. This swelte&.g summer 
of the Xegro's legitimate discontent. will nat pass until 
there is an invigol-atiag autumn of freedm and equality 
-1963 is not an end but rz beginning. who hope 
that the Xegro needed to blow off sim.m and will now be 
c*cmtenlwill have a ndc a wakening if the miioln retumw 
to business as wud. 
There will be neither rest nor tranquility In America, 
until the Negro is granted his fiitizenship rights. The 
whirlwinds of revolt will con:t.inue to shake the foudatiom of our nation until the bright dqs of justice merge. 
(Copyright 1963. MARTINLCTI-XFRKIW., JR.) 
Anii that is something that I must say to my people who 
at& an the worn threshold whioh leads the palm 
of justice. In the prmess d gaining our rightful plw 
we must not be guilty of wrongful deeds. Let us not 
seek to satisfy our thirst for freedom by dl-i;nking from 
the cup of bithrness anld hahd. 
We must forever conduct our struggle cm t~he high plane 
of dignity and diwipline. We must not allow oar ereative proltests to degenerate into physicd videme. Again 
and again we must. rise to t<he maje&ic heights of m&t.ing 
physical form with soul force. The marvelous new militancy whi& has engulfed the Negro communi.ty must not 
lead us t.o distrust all white people, for mamy d our white 
bro;tlwr.s, as evidenced by their presence here today, have 
come to realize that tlheir destiny is tied up with our 
destiny. 
They have come t30 realize that their freedom is inextricably hound to qur fredorn. We cannot walk alone. 
And rn we walk we must make the pledge that we shall 
always march ahead. We cannot turn back. There are 
thase who atweasldng the devotees of civil rights, "When 
will you be satisfied?" We can never be satisfied as lomg 
as the Negro is the victim of the unspeakable horrors of , 
police brutality. 
Tire can never. be mtisficd as long as our bodie~s,heavy 
with the fatigue of travel, cannot gain lodging in the 
matds of the highways and the hot& od the &ties. 
We mnmt be satisfied as long as the Negro's basic 
mobility is from a smaller ghetto to a larger one. We 
can never be satisfied a+slong as our children are atripped 
of the,ir adulthood and robbed of their dignity by signs 
stating "For Whites Only." 
(Copyright 1963. MARTIHLUTHERKING, JR.) 
We canad be srtthfid a63 10% as the-Negro in Missisbippi oannot vote and the %fegro' in New York believes 
he has nothing for prrbiah to vde. 6 \ 
. No, no, we are not satisfied, dwe will wit be sakisEed until justice. rolls down like wakemi azEd rightemm~ 
like ,a mighty beam. 
I ain not unmindful that some otf you have cde here ' ,
out of' gm.t trials a.nd tribulation. Some of you have 
come frewh from narrow jail dls. Some of you have ' 
oom4 from areas where your ,quest for freedm left you 
1m.ttered by the stoms of persecuhn and stagger& by 
the winds of police brutality. You have been the veterans' 
of creative suffering. 
Continue to work with the faith that- nmmd sufferkg 
is redemptive. Go baek to hiississippi, go back to Alaf hma, go back to Sonth Carolina, go back to Georgia, go . 
twk to Louisiana, go back to the slum and ghet-tm d our 
Nmthern cities, knowing t.bt somehow this situation &an 
and will be cihamged. Lit us not wa.Ilow in the vailey of 
despair. 
I say to you %day,my friends, though, even though 
we face the difficultiesof toclay and torno~~ow, I still haw 
a dream. It is a dream deeply rooted in the Amerieaa 
cham. I have a dream thak me day this nation will rise 
up, live out the true meaning of its creed: "We hold these 
truths to be self-erident, that all men are created equal." 
I have a dream tbt olle day on the red hills of Georgia 
sow of for~rmei- slaves and the *om of former slave-owners 
will be able to sit down together at tqhe table of brotherhod. I have a dream that one day even the state of 
Mississippi, a state sweltering with the beat d injustice, 
(Copyright 1963, MARTINLUTHF~KING, JR.) 
sweltering with tihe heat of oppression, will be transf'onned hto an oasis of freedom and 'justice. 
I have a ream that my four little children will me day 
live in a 13iat.icmwhere they will not be judged by the oololr 
of ;their ~kiibut by the content of their &rmtm.r.r I have 
u dram . . . I have a dresjlm that one cEay in AJabama., 
with ibs vbious racists, with its governor h.avin.g his lips 
dripping with the wards of interpwitim wd nullifi+tion, 
one day right t.here in Alabama little black boys and black 
girls will be able to join hands with litkle white boyis and 
white girls as sist&s and brothers. 
1 bvg a dream today . . . I have a aream that one day 
every vadley shall be exdted, every hill and mountain 
&dl be made low. The rough places wild be made plain, 
aad the crooked places 'will be made straight. &nd the 
glory of the Lord shall be rereal&, and all flesh &all see 
it together. This is our hope. This is thle faith that 1 
go I>aolc to bhhc Sout.h wi1,h. Wikh this faith we will be 
able to hew out d the mount& of despair a stane of 
I~o~rn.Vith this faith we will be able to transform the 
jsl~gling discords of our nation into a b~utif~l symphony 
cd' brotherhwd. MTith this faith we will be able ta work 
together, to pray to get he^, to struggle together, to go to 
jail together, to stand ap for freedom @ether, knowing 
that we will he frre one day. 
This will be the day when all of God's ahildren will be 
able to sing with new meaning. "My country, 'tis of thee, 
swot lami of liberty, of the I sing. Land where my 
?'athers did, land of the pilgrim's pride, from every 
n~ountain side, let freedom ring." And if herim is to 
he rr great nation, this mudt become true. So let freedom 
sing from the pr~igious hilltops d New Hampshire. 
Let freedom ring from the mighty mountains of New 
(Copyright 1963, MARTISIXI'HERKING,JR.) 
Park. kt,freedom ring from the heightertiing Allegknies 
of Pennsylvania. kt freedom ring frm the mowcapped 
Rmkias o& Colorado. Let freedom ring from the eurvac+mus slow of California. 
But nat hnly that. Let freedom rhg from Stone Msuntain of Georgia. Let freedom ring from Looko;ut Mount-& of Tmcj.ssee. kt freedom ring from every hill and 
molehill of hGssiwippi, from every mounhin side. Let 
freedom ring . . . When we allow freedom to ring-when we let it ring 
from every city and every ha.mlet, from every s~tate and 
every aity, we will be able to speed up that day when dl 
CUF God's children, black men and white men, Jews and 
Gentiles, Proteslhts and Catholim, will be able to join 
hands and sing in the words of the old Negro spiritual, 
"Fm at last, Free at last, Great God a-mighty, We axe 
free at last."